the Ford Motor Company recently created
a new entity that the calling Ford
Performance it's an umbrella
organization that oversees all of the
company's global performance car
development and its global racing
activities one of the cool things coming
out of this effort is they're now taking
a one forward approach with their
performance vehicles meaning they're
gonna be sold globally not just in one
geographic area I'm standing next to the
first refresh they've done of the Focus
ST which was recently shown to the
European media I've got it because I've
been invited to take this thing up into
the mountains of Switzerland to see what
it can do of course my evaluation of the
car was somewhat restricted because we
were driving on public roads with
traffic and because we were driving in
the mountains of Switzerland this car
was equipped with snow tires even so I
got enough time behind the wheel to get
a good impression but first a quick
review because this is the latest spec
version of the Focus ST and there are
some slight changes the front structure
of the car was beefed up with thicker
brackets in the engine bay it also gets
new front springs and stiffer bushings
on the lower front arms for it wanted to
make the st more neutral because it felt
the car could get a little tail-happy in
certain situations and to go along with
those changes it recalibrated the
electric power steering for faster turn
in the rear end still features that big
spoiler that stretches across the car as
well as a somewhat more pronounced
diffuser and of course those centered
exhaust outlets 19-inch wheels and tires
are now available as our slightly bigger
brake rotors 15 millimeters bigger than
before inside are some slight changes
including a flat-bottom steering wheel
but the Recaro seats the st pedals
engages on top of the instrument panel
are pretty much the same as before
the engine is to that same 2 litre
EcoBoost that puts out 252
first power for it claims the esti will
accelerate from zero to 100 kilometres
an hour
in six and a half seconds the esti is a
blast to drive but surprisingly it
exhibited torque steer under full
throttle acceleration was that due to
driving on snow tires I sure hope so
because I thought Ford's vaunted Revo
knuckle was supposed to eliminate torque
steer I can't wait to get a chance to
truly push this car to its limits on
regular tires and where I don't have to
worry about traffic but it's great to
see that Ford is still tinkering with
the Focus ST making it even better and
not waiting for a model change to make
these improvements